 okay good morning or afternoon depends um so a few points that maybe we want to discuss today right first of all the early dialogue um i don't see the student representative here okay um very bad but
 I received only 10 forms, right?
And some of them, many of them didn't contain all the answers.
So I think that it would be nice to, or worth discussing it now, right?
I mean, I have written a kind of report based on that, but maybe we have to discuss it a bit, right?
 So I don't have it here, the summary, because I thought that I didn't want to spend time on the early dialogue, but I think that maybe it's good instead.
I'm realizing that now, seeing.
So it would be nice, let's do something that is alternative, right?
And even switch off the mic, but early dialogue for the people online can be also possible.
 So there were many questions and, well, I was impressed by one form that was super, super, super negative, right?
So I would like to discuss it now.
Okay, no, I postponed, better to postpone.
So maybe we do a round and everybody says one thing, a couple of things that we'd like to improve, and a couple of things that more or less are fine, okay?
They work well.
 Are you fine with that?
Who is against it?
Anybody against it?
Who thinks that it's not a good idea?
Okay, doesn't matter.
 Let's start from the first line.
You.
Two things that think that don't work should be improved in a straight way.
Don't try to be polite.
Don't be offensive, but polite.
And two things that more or less are fine.
 I think you can use more examples.
 because I had many questions about this first mandatory decision.
But maybe two things, or at least one thing that works in your opinion, decently.
 Maybe turn up the mic, the volume a bit more.
Yeah.
General.
Now, yeah.
 I think when they're recording, the volume is a little bit low, so they need to turn the volume to max when they're listening to the lecture.
I was talking to somebody else, and I said that they needed to put the volume to max.
Okay.
 And maybe take it a little bit slower.
Yeah, when you're explaining something, take it a little bit slower.
Maybe sometimes you speak a little bit too fast, but also the whole thing is complicated.
So it's sometimes hard to...
 know what you're doing.
 The course in general so far feels somewhat unstructured.
It's hard to predict which subjects are due for the next class.
And sometimes, should I read all your notes on kinematics before one lecture, there's quite a bit to get through.
So some type of indication on what we're going to focus on each Friday would be great.
 to better prepare for each lecture?
For sure, but for today?
Just an example.
Previously, it was brilliant.
You said there was no lecture.
That's clear.
And before that, you also said we were going to focus on kinematics.
But that's my initial thought.
 probably talk a bit about the mandatory assignment and further look at kinematics.
Beats me.
 I don't think I'm looking for an explanation because of how it is.
I'm just giving you feedback on how it's perceived.
A table saying that this Friday we'll be focusing on these parts of
 a bit more clarity and easier to predict what we're going to focus on.
For sure.
Makes the lecture, yeah, the lecture we have much more valuable.
 Yeah, for sure, but it's a broad subject, so it's nice to get some.
I believe also we're spoiled for choice in other subjects where maybe notes are given beforehand, so we're able to briefly look through.
Yes.
 So, for example, in chemistry, which we previously had, all the nodes and subjects, which he will be showing on the screen.
But do you know what I'm, do you understand what I'm saying?
How many lectures is prepared for kinematic subject alone?
 I'm asking you, do you know, have you decided beforehand for lectures will be on?
Yeah.
 Won't you run out of time at one point?
Okay.
 I haven't given it too much thought beforehand, so what I'm saying here is just my initial, but I just wanted to say that it feels somewhat unorganized from the outside looking in.
 Just a thought.
It's up to you how you want to structure it.
But yeah, that's my... Yeah, I think there's a good humorous tone, which I appreciate.
 And for things that could be better, I think kind of building on what Sveta said, it feels kind of disjointed to follow the physics subjects compared to other subjects, because it feels like there's a bit of a disconnect between the lecture material and the book.
So if you're curious about something or you need to
 or you need to look up some kind of theory, it can be difficult to know which one you should consult because they have kind of different perspectives and tones.
So for example, chemistry, it feels more like a one-to-one experience, but with physics, it feels a little more disjointed.
I think the notes are...
 I think they play well into how the pace of the lectures is structured too.
I think for me it's good to follow, but I think the notes could maybe be improved by
 maybe having more varied examples and maybe having more pictures as well.
For example, it depends, but like in the lecture notes you had for this one, I think there were like three pictures over 17 pages and it's mostly about coordinate systems and vectors.
So I understood what you were writing and I understood what you did in the lecture, but I think it might be easier for more people to follow
 If you, in addition to going through everything, you maybe show a few pictures at the end about what you did.
You show some pictures about like when you showed last time, I think you did, three different kinds of coordinate systems.
So maybe show a picture at the end comparing the three or something like that.
So pictures aren't always necessary, but sometimes they might make things clearer for people to, yeah.
 Yeah.
Hmm.
 I think that goes back to the disjointed aspect too, where yes, you can go to the textbook, but the way it's presented in the textbook is different from the notes, so it becomes a bit more tedious to navigate compared to other subjects.
 I don't really have anything to add that hasn't already been said.
So in order to not waste everybody's time, I'm just going to move on to the next person.
Anyone else?
It's just when you do calculations on the blackboard and whiteboard, if you can just do at least the same part on one blackboard.
 When you do calculations, you switch the boards.
If you just do that part on one blackboard, so it's just more connected when you copy over in your notes and stuff.
Yeah, when you continue over, it's better if you just try to get one part on one board so it doesn't go from there to there.
It's just easier to note down.
 Yeah, limited in space, but just try to keep it a bit in mind.
But for me, it's structure enough.
So yeah, anyway.
Can you just write a bit more clearer on the boards and a little bit bigger?
Because sometimes it's hard to read what you write.
 Okay, that's all.
I see you use a lot of formulas like equations when solving questions.
And the formulas are... Some of the formulas are not in the formal sheet or the formal...
 textbook yeah it should I think you should tell us when using the formulas that we should know how to drive the formulas or we don't need to drive it we will be given the formulas in the exam sheet so we don't have to if you know what I mean
 Yeah, it's basic, yeah.
 These are the questions.
These are the questions.
 That we know.
But for example, like further in physics, there are some, for example, formulas that is not easy to remember or to drive.
Is it possible that we get formulas in the examine sheet?
 It's clear.
 We need to know why this formula is why.
It comes only by studying
 It makes sense.
I think sometimes you use like symbols that you haven't really cleared up yet in the equations, kind of like expecting us to already know what they mean.
Like for example, because I only had a focus, so I didn't really know what the symbol meant.
You used it like...
 kind of like with us already expecting what it meant.
So I was just a little confused.
I searched it up later and found out, of course, but it would have been kind of better with just a little heads up before you start using it, just explain what it is, and then you can use it, of course.
 Yeah, that's true.
 In one form, somebody wrote that my approach to you is unpolite
 and I make you feel stupid and basically I'm not building an environment where you feel comfortable in asking questions.
This is an opinion and there are no opinions that are right or wrong, there are perceptions.
First of all, of course, I don't want to be impolite, maybe I want to be a bit alternative in order to keep the attention.
But nevertheless,
 Can anybody, are you, okay, of course it's tautology, right, but is anybody feeling that I'm polite with you?
And now it's a stupid problem, right, because I'm hoping that the student representative were here.
Good, one.
I'm sorry.
Sure, sure, sure, but I wanted to rest your hands.
 yeah okay how many of you shared this opinion or less raise your hand i mean really it's european but european matters here yeah but
 no sorry uh i didn't yeah so no can you repeat sorry i'm not sure that i understood what you really meant
 Okay, yeah, yeah.
Okay, so again, your opinion, yes, good.
So I didn't understand exactly how many people more or less shared his opinion in my, I would summarize just to keep notes, essentially,
 Can you rephrase?
You phrased that in the best way, I guess.
 I think so, but some...
 No, no, sure, sure, sure, yeah, yeah.
No, no, it's appreciated.
The point is the best is to have concrete examples, right?
And I'm not, it's not clear to me.
Maybe.
 only time that I, a posteriori, afterwards, I thought that I was a bit, not, was at some point when I was key, there was questions about if I could call the times, T, A, and B, or one, two, or initial, final.
This was the time that, okay, I was a bit more, but the rest, I don't feel that, but it's, I mean, it's important.
Okay, so how many more or less share his feedback?
 How many feel uncomfortable with me?
How many of you feel uncomfortable with me?
The interaction with me is problematic so you prefer not to ask.
 Yes?
Yeah, it's not uncomfortable with you, but .
Okay, okay, but yeah, it's different.
Quality of, now, my concern was about not quality of communication, but unpoliteness, right?
So there are two different levels for, yeah.
 If I'm polite, I really need to change something.
The level of communication, sure, but it's a different level, right?
Okay.
So, let's play a game.
Whenever I'm speaking in particular to you, but I feel that my reply is a bit not so nice, raise your hand, okay?
So I learn.
 OK?
But to you and the others.
OK.
Good.
I will try to write them to improve the report, because I will have to.
It's good also for people that are not here.
I will post on Canvas.
And then there are some procedures.
OK?
 uh okay but thanks for for the feedback in particular the feedback that was a bit more difficult to state in front of me um okay monitor assignments how did it go for how many people go how many of you think that it was feasible
 feasible between between easy and the
 For instance, the best is to discuss it when the solution.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay, so a mixed feeling depending on the question.
Some questions were hard, some questions were reasonable.
Sure.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Okay, good.
I think that once we have the solutions and we discuss the solution, maybe we could do a one-to-one discussion.
Yeah, you're coming.
 Okay, but in general, I mean, it's not that by reading the notes, you have the answers.
It's by critical understanding of the notes and the lectures, you have the answers.
So it requires an effort.
This is why there is, but this is a general statement and might not apply to you.
Okay, but in general, yes.
Okay, and there were two comments there.
 for instance.
 okay maybe homework try to highlighting the text of the assignment no not now but yeah so in order to be more concrete you had also something called commentary
 But because, yeah, I guess here there is... Yeah, yeah, I think that more or less understood.
I'm not sure that understood, but more or less.
But two comments here, right?
Okay, one, the time is limited, okay?
Yes, but...
 yeah but it's maybe connected to what i said before there right for me the the most important part of the theory is to make clear about the the questions right how you get the questions because only if you know how you get the questions and you know how to apply them because you know the assumptions when i say
 Your comment is taken, and I'm sure it's shared by many.
The implementation of that is not easy.
I would say that the exercise slots are the place where this kind of stuff can be done, partially.
 Okay, so my feedback is that yes, I understand the point.
Given the limited time, it's difficult to do everything, right?
And then I don't know exactly how to solve it.
I would say that improving the use of the exercise slots can help.
I was also considering adding extra hours with exercises.
 where I show the solution of the exercises.
How many of you would be fine with that?
Because it's adding hours to what was previously declared.
There is an official number of hours in your timetable.
So now I'm adding extra hours.
 I think that it can help, but at the same time I think that I don't know if you agree.
Then there are other things that cannot be improved.
They will stop soon.
Okay, he's calling for a break.
No, not anymore.
Okay.
 Good.
Yes.
Thanks.
 Okay, I depends how we interpret that right Okay, the goal of the assignment is to make you learn yeah, I
 Okay, I guess wonderful.
I mean, it's not wonderful, but okay.
This is good to discuss once we are going to discuss the solutions, right?
Which is not today.
Sorry, say again, again, because they were too, too, too.
Yeah.
 but okay since we are okay and okay still three minutes of your life and then you can have a break and then we go on okay you have the assignment here no there here yes do you have okay I can give you but then question one is so relative from the course
 can you briefly repeat to everybody so they remember okay one okay good then next one the first one was about the average velocity and you have a vector the second is okay but the second is about
 you have a position with something here that depends on time and you have to determine the velocity right okay for this i would say that the connection with the course is clear more or less i mean clear i mean no how many of i mean you have to do the derivative right you have to say that the velocity
 I tried to write a bit bigger.
Okay.
This doesn't mean to be a good example of something that is decoupled from the course.
Yes.
Yes.
 yes you can use whatever you want but as maybe we said at the beginning you have to be careful that that line is not specifying with respect to what you are doing the derivative and as soon as you have different quantities you can do derivative with respect to time but you can do derivative also with respect to the position for the velocity
 Yes, but in some cases, you might have that the velocity is also dependent on the position, on the distance that that's covered.
Okay, fine.
Yeah, yeah, notation is just notation.
So what I'm just, yes, you can use whatever notation you want.
 In the end, denotation is helpful to guide you to do the right thing.
If you write the prime and the step after, in the next step, you do something that is completely obscure and wrong, it's clear, right?
So denotation.
But denotation helps you to do the things right.
Okay?
 Now we are going to have the break.
Find the break.
Can you find three examples that are completely disconnected from the course?
Sure, sure, sorry for.
 Question four, this is the content and the concept of this question is very meaningful.
I know the T. Okay, does that, yeah?
The way how to solve it, this is like something meaningful.
Okay, this maybe is the misunderstanding, right?
The way to solve a problem is not given.
 It's your critical understanding that should find a way.
Every problem has its way, it's not a recipe.
Okay, this must be clear and unfortunately I guess it's the main problem of this course.
There are no recipes, right?
But you have your math skills and more or less you know what you want to achieve and you have to use your math skills to get the things.
But there are no recipes.
 I know, I know, it's a difficult part of the course, right?
But somebody, okay.
No, no, I'm not, I'm not telling you that it's easy.
It's not easy.
Sure, indeed, I remind you that, no, no, sure, but on the first day of this, of the university, right, I was speaking with, somebody told you that 40% of you will not pass
 right, will not go on, will not finish the degree.
I hope that everybody here will be able to do that.
What?
Yeah, okay, yeah.
 Okay, okay, no, no, my comment was that it's not trivial to, it's not trivial to solve the problems, this is what I'm saying.
There are no recipes.
Okay, yeah.
 Think about the problem and tell me if you can point out the problems.
Well, not now, maybe in the... Yeah, okay, more or less.
 Repeat the last sentence.
I'm not sure.
Yeah.
Yes.
Okay.
 OK, I see.
OK, thanks.
I guess maybe we can have a break of 10 minutes and then we go on with the course.
Yeah, but if you have more feedback, it's welcome.
 But the notes are a good explanation of what we are saying.
It's almost a matter of what I'm saying, right?
In the blackboard.
The notes.
But what is the difference between writing there and the slides?
 Okay, I try to digest your suggestion.
How can I do that?
But there are the exercises for that.
 I mean, I completely agree with you that more example exercises in the lecture would help.
Okay, I will try to digest.
 Sure.
I guess if you don't understand the concept, it's difficult to pass here.
 But for instance, if I...
 No, you can't.
I need to see the textbook.
 Did you try the exercises?
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
 Algebraic mistakes.
 For the algebraic mistakes, I have no solution.
I mean, it's something that comes from high school, but of course, by doing exercise, exercise, exercise, you improve that.
Exercise here, in math, in any kind of work, whenever you have to do a computation, yeah.
Did you ever look at the mandatory assignments of the previous years?
 Maybe.
We are a bit behind with respect to last year.
But then you have more questions similar to the multiple choice quest.
Maybe the mandatory assignment and also the exercises at the end of the notes.
They have a solution.
And then once you have done this, come back.
I guess it's enough for one week.
 Hmm?
 How do you choose where you want the X and Y axis?
I'm not sure.
Yeah.
I feel like you did the derivatives in there.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
 I don't, did you have the fourth course or did you have to?
I don't know if in the textbook or the fourth course you have more exercises and solutions on the topic.
 yeah yeah you're doing them you have you have done it's over right the topic of derivatives and there are you do i mean because there is really a topic that
 Cosine, yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 but more complex derivatives are you doing more complex derivatives in math in the math course in the math 100 what is the level of the exercise you have there for derivatives and integrals yes well i should ask to my colleagues but okay
 Yeah.
Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, sure.
Well, okay.
I don't know the four course textbooks, but maybe start from there.
I mean, you do many, I mean, not making mistakes, this kind of stuff, in algebraic, it's just matter of being used to the edge, I would say.
Yeah, I have a problem with derivatives, but it's more than what's involved.
 I suppose that the problem is that derivative itself is not a problem, but when it's a derivative with something else, then you have to combine.
 Okay, then I give you the option.
What do you prefer?
Do you prefer that we briefly go through the monetary assignments and we superficially discuss the solutions or should we go on with the...
 is the theory we should go with i mean we are behind we are with the program right but we should the plan for today was to to discuss the what remains so the case of acceleration in the presence of acceleration when acceleration is parallel or no parallel to the initial velocity and the circular motion so
 After the discussion today, I'm not sure if I should go on or we should consolidate what the mandatory assignment was supposed to do.
Yeah?
Okay.
The rest?
Okay, good.
Okay, good.
So,
 Last time, in the previous times, what we did was... Now I try to speak slowly.
I will manage to do that during the five minutes.
Last time, what we did was to study the case of a motion of a point-like particle in the case that there is no acceleration.
In this case, we obtain some relationships between how the velocity evolves with time, it's constant,
 how the trajectory is comes out it's a straight line and this time these kind of things now what we want to do is the case that to investigate the case where there is a constant acceleration notice that what we are going to do is the case of constant accelerations but the rational applies to any case
 The mass will be different, the equation will be different, but the concept is all the time essentially the same.
Then we said we have, imagine that we take a snapshot of this particle that is moving, and this particle is moving with velocity v at the time of the snapshot.
 We say that we are going to investigate the case where the velocity is parallel to this velocity.
Then, the acceleration is parallel to velocity.
And now we want to study to obtain the motion of this particle P.
 Okay, as we said last time, in the previous times, in order to solve that and similar problems, we have to choose a reference frame and a clock.
So in this case, what kind of frame and clocks should we use?
Well, we try to do a smart choice in order that we simplify the computations.
And in this particular case, I think that a smart choice
 is to say that the time of the snapshot is the time t equal to zero, equal to zero, zero seconds.
In other words, the time of the snapshot is the time at which I start my watch.
And concerning the reference frame, what I can do is,
 to choose a reference frame such that one of the axes is parallel to the velocity of the acceleration.
For simplicity, I choose the x-axis.
X and y. OK.
 now the ingredients that we have we know that the acceleration is constant and in this particular reference frame coordinate system what we know is that will be a x zero all right because its component along the y-axis y-axis is zero and we know that it's constant so if it is constant this means that
 its derivative with respect to time is zero.
Okay, and the velocity also, the initial velocity here is also parallel to the x-axis.
This means that this velocity will have an x component that is not vanishing and the y component that is vanishing.
 good and now we want our goal is to understand how the position of this object evolves with time okay so here we use our key concepts and
 we try to apply them some way to get a solution.
So, first of all, our key concept is the definition of acceleration, right?
We know that the acceleration in general is the first time derivative, the first derivative of the velocity with respect to time.
Okay.
 then usual rational the acceleration i multiply both sides by the t i the t davy okay do you agree
 Then if I can write this, I can also integrate both sides and everything's fine.
And now, since I know that the acceleration is constant, it was given by the problem, I know how to solve this integral, right?
Because this is an integral of a constant
 and integra integrated over d so from this side what i get is a d plus a constant d and the right hand side i can i'm integrating over a velocity so i get
 the velocity plus a constant E, a vector constant.
Do you agree?
Anybody disagree about that?
This is very similar to what we did for the previous case of velocity, right?
I'm just writing something slightly different because last time what we were doing was
 to show explicitly the components of the accelerations and the elements that were in the integral.
And so we're saying AX, AY, the t. This is in general.
In this particular case, AY is zero.
And we say that this, mathematically, can be solved by doing the integral of the first component over the t.
 by doing the integral over of the second components over the t do you agree okay so this kind of procedure is what you typically follow in understanding the evolution of a point-like particle where a and v are known
 Okay.
Now, if maybe we want to put explicitly the components of these quantities.
Okay, so what do we get is, we can also do this.
Okay, this expression is equivalent to say, A X T, A Y T,
 but a y is zero, which means that here I can put a zero.
Right?
Plus this constant, that is the integration constant coming from the integral.
D is equal to vx
 plus E1, E2.
And we say that the velocity, here we go.
At the moment, we don't want to, well, we can directly put a zero here because we know that the motion is in one direction.
 Okay.
And as usual, remember that when you have these kind of problems, you also need to remember and to apply the boundary conditions.
Because what you're getting is a kind of differential equation.
This one, this equation.
 and since when you do the integral you will get some constants you will not know the unique solution of the problem unless you know the boundary condition the initial conditions here what are the initial conditions the initial conditions is that the velocity
 at the time t equal to t zero equal to zero is exactly this quantity, vx zero, right?
Okay, this, just to be clear, is the initial velocity, right?
Here.
Okay.
So if we impose this
 you obtain what I suppose you are familiar from previous courses where you were studying, you were using the equation for the case of linear motion with constant acceleration.
You get that A X T plus the X is equal to V X
 plus u1.
And the second equation we can neglect because we know that it's irrelevant because in the end we already know that the motion is along the x-axis.
So we don't have to worry about what happens along the y component because we already know that it will be zero.
Okay, so this is the equation and now we have to check that satisfy the boundary conditions.
 So remember this.
Maybe it was not clear.
Okay, and now can you tell me what are the values of dx minus ex such that this boundary condition
 is satisfied.
I repeat, this initial velocity at that time, zero.
And by your math, what you have obtained is that you have this velocity, depends on the acceleration this way.
How does the velocity evolve?
 if you know that at the time zero, the velocity is vx, zero.
Okay, maybe it's easier to show it, that formulating the question such a way that you really understand what I mean.
So we have this generic equation, and now we must ensure that this condition is satisfied.
So I copy that.
 ixt plus dx is equal to vxt plus ex and i want to impose this condition by imposing these conditions i require that ax
 0, t equal to 0, plus dx is equal to vx at a time 0, which is v0, plus ex, ex.
 then what do you deduce you deduce that dx plus ex dx sorry minus e x is equal to v x 0
 right because ax times zero is zero and here i've written dx we equal to vx vx0 plus ex so the conditions this equality is satisfied if dx minus ex is equal to vx0 then this means that i take this one
 now here and i can replace the value of dx and dx given by that and what i get is that v x t will be equal to v 0 x plus a x t okay do you agree
 So what does it mean?
It means that in the case that you are studying a motion of a particle in one direction, where a particle with a given velocity and acceleration that is constant and along that velocity, this is how the velocity evolves with time.
 in the particular situation where your coordinate system and your clock are such that the velocity, the body, P, is on the origin of the axis at the time zero.
 And how many of you have not seen this kind of expression before?
All of you, right?
Have seen this kind of expression in the past.
But you can see that here, then if you see this expression, you must know now that you can use this expression only if the acceleration here is constant and
 if the velocity is parallel to the acceleration.
In this particular case, you can use this expression.
Notice that you have also the y component in principle, but this is trivial in the sense that it's zero equal to zero.
Okay, questions?
 And maybe here, given the feedback that you gave me, I'm showing this particular case, and it's difficult to convey the general idea, but you can also see that in general,
 Once you know the acceleration and the velocity, you have this kind of expression from this definition.
And by integrating or play with the derivatives, you can derive the velocity at any time.
This we will see later on, or maybe next time at this point.
But this can be used in many cases.
 if the acceleration is not constant, this is also true.
But the difference is that then you repeat this procedure, but you have to be careful because when you're doing this step, the acceleration here is not a constant.
Then this means that you will get something different here because this is equal to this only in the case that this quantity is a constant.
Otherwise the integral is different.
 okay okay then let's do a different case now okay just since the today's the data feedback do you need to see an example where there is a car moving with a given acceleration in order to
 to understand the connection between this expression and the real world?
Yes or no?
No, no, no, no, it's not yes or no.
I mean, thanks for the yes or no, but I'm trying to understand what you want, right?
And of course, it's not required that I give you what you want, but please understand it.
Okay, then next point is the following, right?
 Can I ask you during two seconds, I mean two minutes, to think how you would get from this, this?
Because the initial question is how the position evolves with time.
Okay?
You will have no time to really solve it, but for one minute you stop and you think and probably try to
 to realize how you are supposed to use these equations.
 So the question is, we have solved all of this, but now the next step requires you to compute the position, how the position evolves with time.
 Okay.
Remember we are working in the particular case that we can ignore the y component.
So what we have to do is to find the position as a function of time.
So we have the velocity and we know that the velocity
 by definition, is the first derivative of the position.
Right?
And now, usual stuff.
I move the dt from here to here.
The dt equal to the r. I can integrate.
 And now, I have to perform the integrals.
Okay, here.
Okay, let's do this, right?
First, it's the most difficult, but okay.
So, can you tell me the result of this?
Where v is known there?
 Yes.
Go on, go.
Yes.
Plus a constant.
Okay.
Okay.
Then, what I have to do, right?
This, what is written here, is generically true.
Yes.
 Yeah.
Yes.
So this is generically true.
And what we are going next depends on the particular expression of velocity.
For this particular case, the velocity we know has only one component that isn't vanishing.
 So we can simply focus on that one.
Okay.
And prefer the integral.
This integral is V zero X T because V zero X is a constant plus one half A X T square.
And this,
 is the result of integrating this part, only if AX is constant.
Otherwise you get something different.
Plus, let me wrote here a constant, C, and here, RXT.
 as we said in previous time, plus a constant, but it can reabsorb this constant into this constant.
So my equation, you have just one constant C. Okay, and now, as usual, I have these kind of expressions and I have the integration constants that are unknown unless I'm using some extra conditions of the problems.
 This boundary condition, this case, is that we have said that the position of the object at the time zero is on the origin.
So, what I know, I have to, if you want, add a condition here, which is that rx at the time equals zero is equal to zero.
Okay?
 because we said I have chosen the beginning, the clock and the coordinate system such that the body P is on the origin.
And this, okay, you can see that this implies that C is equal to zero
 If I have this expression and I have to impose these boundary conditions, the only option that I have is that c is equal to zero.
When rx is evaluated at time equal to zero.
So c equals zero and I go here and then I obtain that rxt
 will be v zero x t plus one half a x t squared do you agree okay
 And this kind of expression now is again easy to small for the people that are in the first row, the last row.
So this kind of expression is the expression that maybe you can find in the textbook or in your formula book.
But now you know when you can use it.
And we can see here, you can use it, this kind of expression, only if the velocity is parallel to the acceleration.
 and if the acceleration is constant and if the object is on the origin at the initial time t0 equal to 0 in the particular case in the nodes you have also the case that imagine that the coordinate system is such that
 y and x so in the particular case where the the velocity and acceleration are parallel to the x-axis but at the initial time at the given time the time of the snapshot the the particle is not on the origin you can check that the mass is exactly the same but what changes
 is this expression, because in that particular case, you will have that this will be not equal to zero, but it will be something like R X zero, which is exactly this position.
Okay?
And if you do that, you will see that C will be different.
 okay and in the end as you know from in that particular case different case right you will get that the velocity is exactly still the same but here we will have that r x t is equal to v zero x t plus one half a x t square
 plus rx0, which is the initial position along the x-axis.
To properly see that, if you want, you have just to repeat this procedure with this slight difference, and you will get this.
 I hope that I convince you, I show you the key step where you get the different C and then you get the different expression.
Okay?
And also this kind of expression that is written very small, but this kind, okay, with this, is something that you are, I suppose you are a bit really familiar with, right?
Maybe you are not familiar, I mean, the point is it's important to refresh the assumptions
 implicit there.
Okay, now the new question, right?
First, is it clear?
More or less clear.
Second, do you need an explicit example with the car that is accelerating?
Okay, here somebody should say yes, otherwise I get confused.
 Nobody of you thinks that it would be nice to have an explicit example?
Good.
Oh, good, okay.
Thanks for the feedback.
Okay, and let's try to figure out a simple problem.
 Where this is.
Okay.
 and imagine this the example is a bit crappy but it's a bit so imagine that you you can see okay the bike okay that is moving you take a snapshot and you see that as constant velocity
 sorry, constant acceleration, but not constant velocity, okay?
But it's moving along a straight line, and so it's, the velocity is like that.
Okay.
You know that at the time one second, its position is,
 RT equal to one second is equal to... Okay, yes.
Five and 10 meters.
 okay the acceleration the velocity at the time t one second is two zero two minute per second
 and the acceleration is constant is zero three meter per second square okay okay then can you compute the time at what time the final if you want and this is zero um
 okay computed the final time such that the bike has run five meters
 Okay, the distance, okay, now that I have to improve a bit, but okay.
So, you know that the bike is at this position in your coordinate system and your clock.
The velocity at this time is zero to two meter per second and this acceleration.
Okay?
How much time does the bike need to cover a distance of five meters?
 And now whoever asked for the problems should work on the problem.
And also the others.
 Okay.
Did you solve it?
Maybe not, maybe yes.
But what we are going to do is to try to... Okay.
The dumb version of this is that you get the equation of motion for the particular case and the boundary conditions.
 But notice that, first of all, this is a bit different from what we have done here.
Indeed, the initial position is not on the origin.
The velocity, sorry, yes, but you are in the case that the velocity and the acceleration are parallel and along a given axis.
But you can see that the initial velocity is weird.
 And also, the initial time is a bit off, with respect to what we have done before.
Because there, before we considered the case, initial time equals zero.
But, what we have to do can be solved.
Nothing obliges us to use the coordinate system that was implicit in the problem, right?
What we can do is to consider, okay, it's very small here.
 okay the problem is like that i have the velocity here and i have the acceleration here okay and they're along the y-axis and the initial point is here random point weird what i can do is to try to choose a different coordinate system a different clock in such in a way that i can use the equation that i got before so
 I change my reference frame and clock in a way that my assumptions are realized.
This reference frame is this, where I call it Z and here omega just to have different names.
 In this particular case, the velocity is part of the acceleration and the object is on the origin at the time zero.
Yes?
Yeah.
 okay besides the graphical issue i can choose a different coordinate system with an axis along the velocity and acceleration and the origin matching the initial position of this object right so it's something like that and i call this axis as
 Z and omega.
That's because I cannot use the same letters that were used before.
Do you agree?
Okay, and now I am exact for this new reference coordinate system.
And the clock where I said that time equals zero here.
I am exactly in the conditions for that.
Under which we computed the expressions.
 So now I can, now I can use those expressions.
And I copy, and this expression we're saying that the position along one axis was given by the velocity, initial velocity, the component of initial velocity along that axis, times t, plus one half of z, t squared.
Then I replace the numbers.
Those are written there.
 So I have the two meter square times plus one half three meter divided by second square T square, right?
Must be equal to five meters.
Do you agree?
Okay, the rest is algebra.
I don't know exactly what you get from T, for T, but you get a number.
 Yes?
What I said is I choose in a different coordinate system a different clock.
The second clock is marking zero when the other one is marking one second.
 No, but notice that the five meter, this is, okay, just to be sure, this is the distance that the bike has covered, not the position.
Okay, so it's a difference.
Okay.
This is independent of the coordinate system that you have chosen.
Right?
Good.
 okay i guess it's good time for the break unless you have more questions okay so maybe let's try to have eight minutes of break and then we go yeah yeah
 No, no, it's not R, it's not R. Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
 Yes.
No.
Yeah, we don't need it because we have used, we have chosen a new coordinate system in such a way that in the new coordinate system, the initial position was zero.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So in that...
 Now in that coordinate system, the point at the time is on the origin, right?
Exactly.
We can solve it only because we removed the coordinate system.
Otherwise, you should have solved all the equations for this different case.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 No, no, exactly.
The point is that we don't, I mean, no.
In practice, we don't need because we have been smart enough to choose a coordinate system where this was zero.
 Okay.
Yes, that was zero, yes, but we start from here.
Exactly, exactly.
But here we start from somewhere.
Yeah, but indeed, in order to compute the distance, we didn't use this.
This coordinate system is telling us that, right, this is the initial time at T1 second, and here, like, this is X and Y, you know?
And the point P is here.
Yeah?
 Okay, what we have done is, okay, all right, it was oriented in this direction, right there.
Yeah, yeah, okay, but, okay.
So what we have done is to change coordinate system to solve the problem.
 Exactly.
Yeah, yeah, this drawing was right.
The acceleration is this direction, the velocity is in this direction.
Now we, I mean, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And now we solve as fast as possible the generic case.
 Yes.
 Okay.
Good.
Concerning the extra exercises.
If I remember correctly, okay, there was the office hour that was every Monday from, I don't remember, 9 to 10.
Let me check.
So what I'm proposing you is to have the extra hours of just exercises where I'm solving exercises on the blackboard.
 Okay.
Let me check.
Well, the proposal is Monday morning.
Exactly.
More or less every Monday from 9 to 10.30, 10.45.
Is it okay?
 Okay, is it overlapping with, yes, yes.
It is overlapping with what?
Sure, yes, yes.
So if I interpret your point, you don't want extra hours.
Okay, fine.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 yeah okay yeah but because at the beginning of the the semester we decide that Monday at 10 would so your prop okay besides you okay I open
 a discussion on Canvas, where I put my availability.
And then you convert on a slot that is one hour and a half, more or less.
Just to be sure.
Friday, for instance, Friday morning, are you... Is there a day that on Friday morning, are you free?
From 8 to 10.
 okay it's a bit borderline for me so uh yeah yeah because i have to do something else before but maybe something like 8 30 to 10 every friday so friday is a day all together okay
 okay does it work okay the intention is starting from next Friday included but maybe I need to confirm it because why okay no yes starting from next Friday okay
 okay and the goal of that one hour and a half is that i sketch because the solutions of some exercises for instance i don't know we take the it's a bit early but we take the problems of previous exams or previous monetary assignments and we solve them together sounds good okay
 Good.
Let's move on.
And at 10, what do you have?
Sorry.
If we go to 10.15, you have something at 10.
Yeah, OK.
So we try to finish at 10 short.
OK.
Sorry, sorry?
 Yes, just and it's not mandatory.
Nothing is mandatory here, but it's about exercises.
Extra one hour enough where I solve exercises, okay?
 Okay.
Do you think that you represent more or less all the students in the sense that what is the probability that there is somebody that says my time plan of lectures clash with this?
Should work for everybody you think, right?
Okay.
 Okay.
To solve this problem, yes, we had to do a bit of gym with the coordinate system and choose the good one because we could do that, right?
Now we try to find the kind of, the position as a function of time in the most generic case, in the particular case where the velocity is parallel to the acceleration.
 okay repeat acceleration parallel to velocity okay this is the the conditions that we have
 So let's consider the particular case that the position is generic.
So it's here, and your coordinate system is this one.
 x and y and this is the position so this p and this is the picture that you have the snapshot at the time t 0 generic okay
 So, here, the initial position at zero will be a generic RX zero, RY zero.
And the velocity is, for instance, in this direction.
 and you know that the initial velocity v zero will be v x zero v y zero and you know the acceleration
 A is constant.
So I don't need to put a zero to specify.
A, Y. And particular information that is important.
This must be proportional to VX zero, VY zero.
 Why am I specifying this?
Because here what I'm writing is that the acceleration is parallel to the velocity.
When are the two vectors parallel?
When the two are related by a constant.
 So this simply means that the other one is a bit longer or shorter than the others, but with the same direction and same orientation, if k is positive.
Orientation has the same orientation if k is positive.
Opposite orientation if k is negative.
Okay.
And now, let's start solving.
As before, we want to know
 r t and v at the generic time so what do we do well as usual we can write that the velocity is the first derivative of the acceleration and this implies that i can multiply both sides by the t
 v dt equal the uh no no no wait wait wait and now the says that i'm stupid the acceleration is the first derivative of the velocity not vice versa so here i have acceleration and here dv
 okay and integral sign integral sign and now i can solve it by putting explicitly the components i can do that or i cannot do that i mean it's a choice it's just a notation to show better i hope the solutions so we have to solve and it's a x a
 y dt.
This is what is written here.
And since the acceleration is constant, the components will be constant.
And then I can write here ax t plus a constant dx.
Here ay t plus dy.
 because they are the usual integration constants.
And here, I can put v, x, t, v, y, t, plus a constant, plus the constants.
 okay okay then this means that i have now to find the value for the constants such that the initial conditions are satisfied
 The initial condition was that velocity at the time t0 was vx0, vy0.
Then here, I add the boundary conditions.
This means that at the time t0, I repeat, t0 was generic, the velocity must be equal to this.
 So I put here, I get ixt0 plus dx iayt0 plus dy is equal to vx0 plus ex
 v y 0 plus e y. Do you agree?
 If it is not clear for the bulk of people, of course I repeat, but tell me in case what is not clear.
Everything.
Okay, five seconds and everybody shouts a part that is unclear.
If there is a part that is unclear, otherwise I go on.
 One, two, three, four, five.
Okay, maybe I repeat, just repeat, I don't know.
We are in the situation, okay?
The initial position at the time, generic time T zero is this one, given by this.
At this initial position, initial time T zero, the velocity is this one, this.
And there is a constant acceleration parallel to V.
 which is this one, which is this.
And since it's parallel to the initial, to the velocity, there is this relationship.
Then I want to, yes, a constant, a number, five, 10.
We don't know exactly what, but it's to say that this is a way to write that this is parallel to this.
Yes?
 yes yes yes okay okay then usual tricks right I do the integrals pop pop pop pop pop and contrary to the case before in this case I have the both components are not trivial not vanishing so I have to take care of both so
 I have to do the integrals of each component.
And in the end, what I'm getting here is this expression.
So I will know that the velocity, the x component of the velocity at the generic time t is equal to ax t plus a constant minus a constant.
See if I move this constant here, right?
And the same applies to the y component.
 Now, I have this information that I want to fulfill.
And thanks to that information, I can know the values of the quantities of dx minus ex and the value of dy minus ey.
And by knowing these such values, I completely determine the velocity as a function of time.
 so what i have to do is to check the value of the velocity obtained from this expression and the particular case that i know so the time t zero then i replace in this generic expression t zero t equal to zero so and they write this okay
 questions okay then from here I get
 Sorry, sometimes there's a thing.
 Yeah, precisely.
That dx minus, okay, let me write here, you see better.
Okay, I have that dx, first line, dx minus ex, okay, is equal to vx0,
 v x zero minus a x t zero okay and the same for the second line d y minus e y is v y zero minus a y t zero okay now that i know the values of
 this relationship, right?
I can replace here.
And what I can find is that for these particular values of the constant, I obtain that Vx, Vxt, okay, will be Axt, Axt, plus dx minus ex, right?
 plus dx minus ex.
But the value of dx minus ex is known from the boundary condition.
So it's ax t minus ax t zero plus vx zero.
 Okay, and the same for VY.
Here, AYT plus DY minus EY.
 And then AX, we say T, plus that quantity.
T minus T0 plus VX0.
Okay?
Okay?
 So, I repeat, the boundary condition tells me the value of the constants, and then I replace these values of these constants in the generic expression that I was painting here.
And then what I can say is that the x component of the velocity, this is the vector vt, that the velocity
 a function of time we have two components the first one will be ax t minus t 0 plus v x 0 and something similar for the y do you agree and you can notice that this
 is a kind of generalization of what we were obtaining before, right?
Because in the particular case where the velocity, for some reasons, were vanishing, we were getting exactly the previous expressions.
In the generic case that the time is zero, the initial time was not exactly zero.
Okay?
Okay.
Okay?
So and so.
 Okay, and now the problem is asking us not only to compute the velocity at functional time, but also the position.
To determine the position, I do the same gym or very similar gym.
 okay because as before now I have the velocity as function of time and I also know that the velocity is the first derivative of the position this means that I can multiply both sides by the t be the t equal to r
 I can integrate and now I have to do the integral of V X T, V Y T, the T. And now let me do that only for one component.
The other is exactly the same.
 So v is not a constant.
So vx is not a constant.
It is this quantity.
Okay?
Then what I can do is to integrate.
So and the integral will be
 vx0 t plus ax t0 with a minus t.
 plus 1 of ax t squared plus the usual constant c1 minus okay and the same here below for the y component and now
 I wrote the math, it's written in the notes.
But the idea is the following.
This is equal to rx0, sorry, rx, sorry, function of t, plus x0.
 D1 plus here the second component is something similar for the Y component.
And usual stuff.
Now you have to require that at the initial time, D0,
 That expression that is telling you the position as a function of time satisfies this condition that r0 at the time t0 is this one.
So I like to do the math.
And the math is written in the notes.
 And you will find that R is a function of time, will be R X T, R Y T, the vector, where the two components depend on time.
 okay and what you will get is r zero x plus v zero x okay i mean for the streaming this one this part is blind so let me write here so
 r is function of time by replacing everything will be r zero r x zero plus v x zero times my t minus t zero plus one half a x t minus t zero square
 and the same here at y zero plus v y zero t minus t zero plus one half a y t minus t zero squared okay which in the end you can see that is quite similar
 to the expression that we got before in the particular case that the velocity was exactly along one axis and t zero was equal to zero.
Okay.
 And now in the last nine minutes, the last point, which is what kind of trajectory are we obtaining from this motion?
And in the mandatory assignments, there was a question about the trajectories.
And in the previous weeks, we were discussing about the trajectory, right?
 what we said is the trajectory or path is the set of points in the coordinate system that at some point the body occupies before or after T0 doesn't matter at a certain time so
 What kind of trajectory do you expect from this kind of expression?
Yeah.
Yes.
But my guess is that you got it from here, not from there.
And of course, in this case, this case is particularly simple because we have intuition.
 through it is a straight line and let's let's try to check if it is straight line because this is a simple case but we should learn how to do to understand the trajectory in a more generic case so we use this as a simple example so what we do remember that we said the trajectory in order to understand trajectory what we have to obtain is a
 how, for instance, the Y component of the position depends on the X component.
This is the trajectory.
And in the nodes, there is an explicit version of that, but I want to stress one key point, and now we are using that.
 the trajectory is a straight line.
Do you agree that?
No, not this.
So now what I want to plot is
 the value of the y component of the position as a function of the x component of the position.
And since it's a straight line, what I should get is something like that.
Very good, Germano, very good!
No?
Yes, of course, yeah.
The point is how to get that from this.
 and what I would like you to do before checking the nodes is that if in this particular case you have that if you do the first derivative of the y component with respect to the x component this
 It can be something weird, a weird expression, but a constant.
Right?
Because, remember, in general, if this is y and x, the equation for a straight line is yx equal to alpha x plus,
 beta plus b, whatever.
This is the equation of the straight line in the Cartesian system.
And what does it mean?
It means that the first derivative is a constant.
If I have something like that, which is the equation of a parabola, a x squared plus b x plus c,
 which is a parabola.
Do you recognize it?
It's a parabola here.
I use the first derivative.
The first derivative will be not constant, right?
It will depend on x in the first derivative because it will be 2ax plus b. So there is x there.
This means that it's not a constant.
It depends on... Okay.
So from this expression where you have x
 depending on time and ry, what I suggest you to do is to verify that the first derivative of ry with respect to the other x is constant.
It's not straightforward, but you can do that.
So, key point here, we have today,
 we are seeing how, in general, we can solve a situation where the velocity and the accelerations are parallel.
But by doing that, we have learned a procedure that more or less can be extended and generalized to different cases.
So the usual stuff, you express in the case, you know that the acceleration is the first derivative of the velocity, and the velocity is the first derivative of the position.
 by using this you can combine and do computation the integral derivative in such a way that you get the position and the velocity as a function of time second we have seen well you have to check but let's say that we have seen that
 The trajectory, in general, is something that can be deduced by expressing the Y component of the position in terms of the X component of the position.
And in this particular case, you will see that it's a straight line, as expected from everyday life experience.
Questions?
 Time to go home and do something else.
Okay, then concerning, okay, Wednesday, of course, there are the exercise sessions.
And with the teaching assist and you go there, there will be some problems.
The problems, I can already tell you, go with the problems that are at the end of the notes.
 Okay, on Canvas I will write the numbers, but here are the exercises.
And next Friday at 8.30.
And then in the afternoon.
Okay, see you.
